Before HVM L5 the only way to play video and audio on your sites was to use some sort of a plugin with
HVM L5 adding and controlling video and audio is extremely easy.
Before we can do that though we will need to download some video and audio.
So I would just do a quick quick google for sample video and I like the Web site sample videos dot com
which does exactly what you think it might do.
And for video I would recommend before this has got the most browsers support of all the file formats.
So I'm going to click download for that first one and can save it in the same folder as my main file
and I'll just call it
video.
And while we're here we'll download some audio as well.
Again MP3 is the best antidote to use in my opinion because it's the only one supported by all the major
powerhouses.
I'll just call that Woody Guthrie.
So let's get rid of all of the phone code and see how we add video to IDM l page.
So as I've said it's super easy we just use the video tag with a certain width.
OK for 320 and a height of 240 and then we need to do is specify a source for the video.
And we do that using an SIRC of video.
And before we specify the type as well
so the Taipei's video slash.
And before you can even specify multiple sources if you want to be absolutely sure that you're maximizing
browser compatibility with people you should be pretty safe.
You can also add some text which will appear if the user's browser doesn't support this type of video.
I'll just put.
Please upgrade your browser.
All right then that's public.
So there's the video Fortunately though we can't do anything with it.
That's because without specifying controls we don't get given any controls.
So let's try now.
There we go.
That looks a bit better.
And we can play the video right back.
All the controls are going to be different from browser to browser.
Usually that will have a full screen option
like that and volume controls and slide controls as well.
We can also use the auto play attributes to do what you might think make the video auto play.
So if we were really cruel to our users we might turn off the controls and also play the video.
That might work quite well but the soundless video that form the backdrop of a hero on your page for
example.
But normally we're going to want to give the users some controls.
That's pretty much all there is to it.
But we can also interact with the video using javascript.
And I'll just show you the basics of how we might do that here.
So let's add a bit of javascript's.
One thing to note in HMO five as well is that you don't have to specify a type for your script tags
anymore.
I think it's generally a good idea but it's not part of the HTML5 specification so we can just leave
it like that.
So let's say we wanted our own button which started the video.
So let's just get rid of what I play for the moment.
So underneath the PDA we might have a button with an ID of play
which has the word play on it.
So obviously that won't do anything at the moment but let's write some javascript to get some interaction
with it.
So we'll use the good old get element by ID to grab our play button and we want to add an on click to
that which is a function
which will be contained here.
And as usual I'll do a quick check just to make sure everything is linked up again.
So how do we make the video play.
It's pretty easy.
We need to first get the video an I.D. so I'll give it I.D. of video.
And then again we use document talks.
I don't buy I.D. video and then we just simply use play
simple as that.
So let's see it in action and we get
a quick challenge for you.
Can you make it not just a play button but a button which either plays or pauses the video depending
on whether it's currently paused or playing airfreight
or you may have had a little bit of googling there to figure out how to do it.
But it's pretty straightforward.
We do a check to see if document dog get element by id video and then paused
if that's the case.
We'll play it.
If it's not
and
I'll pause it.
So let's have a look.
I play pause play pause and just be a little bit more fancy as well.
If we're making it play and we'll set this thoughts in a HMO is equal to a pause.
And similarly here they start in each t l is equal t play.
Just so our play button updates
quite.
One more thing before we move on to Odeo.
So that's pretty much all you need to know about including video and your web sites and you can probably
guess what the process is for including podia.
It works in pretty much the same way.
So let's check it out.
So instead of a video tag we have an idea tag.
We don't necessarily need a whit than a height here.
So we might just want to have an audio tag with controls.
And then as before we specify the source.
In our case it's going to be Audioboo MP 3 on a small HCM him L5 comment here is that you no longer
need the quotes around attribute values like that.
I quite like putting them in.
I think it makes things a little bit clearer but it's a team of 5 you don't need them.
I mean you specify the type again.
So this is MP 3 so we use all Deodhar MPEG.
And then once again we'll add a message
talk great that browser if it doesn't work.
And here we go.
So I should play video.
It is
wonderful.
And note that if we take out the controls and put auto play in there we can again very crudely just
also play the sound
without any way of stopping it.
So let's not do that.
That's better.
And that's it you can use exactly the same javascript instructions to add play pause et cetera.
But I'm sure you can figure out how to do that based on this code if you need to.
It's a very very simple.
We just use the video tag or the audio tag with a few options to play video and audio and your web sites.
I hope your head is buzzing with ideas about how you might use that but we're going to go on and see
perhaps the most famous HVM L5 tag.
And that is canvas.